# On Topic
On Topic is a web app allowing users to search for keywords in three different API databases, returning results of articles and videos (sourced via YouTube) related to that keyword. This is all part of Team No Rest For The Students's Project One for UCLA's Fullstack Web Development Coding Bootcamp (September 2019 to March 2020). Users may expand or collapse the Related Articles or Related Videos sections on selection of the header element. Users may also create a login for the app by selecting the Sign Up button, or if the user has a login and is returning to the web app, sign into their account by selecting the Login button.

## Search Functions
We built this web app with a focus on being mobile responsive first. This web app allows users to get a quick read on articles related to their keyword(s) in different formats depending on which radio button is selected.

When "Current Events" is selected, any keyword(s) input into the search text area will pull the related ten most recent articles collected by NewsAPI and populate them into the Related Articles div. Any image associated to the articles requested will display in small on desktop, or to fill screen on mobile, along with the title of each article, the author(s) of each article, and the publication date for each article. A small summary of the article will be displayed, followed by a link to the original article. Selecting this link will open a new window to the article.

When "Past Year's Events" is selected, any keyword(s) input into the search text area will pull the related ten most recent articles collected by CurrentsAPI from the year prior and populate them into the Related Articles div. Any image associated to the articles requested will display in small on desktop, or to fill screen on mobile, along with the title of each article, the author(s) of each article, and the publication date for each article. A small summary of the article will be displayed, followed by a link to the original article. Selecting this link will open a new window to the article.

When "Wikipedia" is selected, any keyword(s) input into the search text area will pull the top ten related pages on Wikipedia by WikiData API and populate them into the Related Articles div. There are no images, authors, or publication dates displayed. The beginning of the Wikipedia page will be displayed, followed by a link to the original Wikipedia page. Selecting this link will open a new window to the Wikipedia page.

In all cases, the keyword(s) input will go to the YouTube API and populate 5 videos related to the keyword(s) on "Search". These videos will be populated as embeds in the Related Videos section. 

## Sign Up and Login
At present, site visitors have an option of signing up for the app, which allows them to have the website display a welcome message to the user when logged in. Functionality might be expanded in the future, but at present, this is the only visible change a logged in user will experience.

Selecting the "Sign Up" button will popuate a modal asking for the user's First Name, Last Name, Email Address, Password, and Confirm Password. It also displays a message stating the page 

## Extra Bits
There are two extra buttons present on this web app: Fact of the Day, and NASA Image of the Day. 

Selecting the Fact of the Day button will generate a modal which provides a random fact related to the calendar date of a user based on their local timezone. Closing the modal and selecting the Fact of the Day button again will provide a new, random fact for that calendar date. This is generated by the Numbers API, specifically teh "date" portion, which generates a random fact for a give date upon requect made to the API.

The NASA Image of the Day button opens a modal which displays the Astronomy Picture of the Day from NASA, along with a brief explanation of the picture itself. This may be a photograph or a video. This image or video will change based on NASA's database updating daily. Selecting the button more than once will not change the image or video until the date has changed for the user.

## Langauges Used
* CSS3
* HTML5
* JavaScript

## Libraries Used
* Bulma CSS
* FontAwesome
* jQuery
* jQuery Validate

## APIs Used
* CurrentsAPI
* NASA POD API
* NewsAPI
* Numbers API (Date)
* Wikidata API
* YouTube Data API

## Other Technologies Used
* Firebase 
